# CNO Responsive Blocks

Adds responsive controls to WordPress blocks for enhanced layout flexibility.

## How it Works - [CSS]

### `_utils.scss`

`_utils.scss` defines three simple breakpoints (based on [Bootstrap 5's available breakpoints](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/layout/breakpoints/#available-breakpoints)), “Mobile”, “Tablet” and “Desktop”&mdash;`none`, `sm`, and `lg` respectively. It also defines a sass `map` that, for clarity's sake, I'll explain with Typescript.

```ts
type $classes = {
	[css: string]: {
		// injected into generated `.is-visible-at-{$css}-size` class
		query: string /* CSS Range syntax */;
		label: string; /* Used for the Block Editor */
	};
};
```

### FrontEnd CSS

`style.scss` injects two classes: `.has-responsive-settings` and `.is-visible-at-{$selector}-size`, where `$selector` is generated by looping through the `$classes` map defined in `_utils.scss`. The query uses the modern CSS [Media Query Range Syntax](https://css-tricks.com/the-new-css-media-query-range-syntax/) and grabs the breakpoints from the predefined `$breakpoints` list.

The actual _media query_ uses `display:none` to hide things, which is backwards from how one might normally think of doing things. This is done intentionally so that the plugin is agnostic about display values, and only hides things when they shouldn't show up. Example:

Choosing “Desktop Only” sets a `.is-visible-at-desktop-size` class that actually _hides_ the element at viewport widths smaller than `$breakpoints.desktop`!

## Changelog

### v1.0.3 - [March 19, 2026]

- Fixed: Breakpoints are fixed again
- Chore: re-add missing files (accidental deletion)

### v1.0.2

- Fixed: Gutenberg Classes are properly passed through
- Chore: Update packages
- Chore: Update `deploy` workflow

### v1.0.1 - [September 22, 2025]

- Fixed: “Mobile & Tablet” breakpoint is fixed
- Fixed: Gutenberg classes would sometimes accidentally get removed.
- Tweak: Refactored code to nested directories for clearer file structure.
- Chore: Update packages

### v1.0.0 - [September 10, 2025]

- First Release 🎉
